And then we're simply going to add the ventricular system in there.
So, we've already seen this stage, for now we've done this, we've
done this, okay.
You see, we're going to add all the segmentation, as we'll see with the
different structures.
Here we can turn it laterally, that will give you a view.
So what's important to me, you see here we can clearly see the development happening.
What's important is that you have a kind of movement within you.
When I take someone, I put it in my mind, I have this movement and I have a globality.
Even when you take the feet, you're going to have something else that will set in.
When we've done the whole course, you'll see that the feet, you'll realize
that they are connected to the peritoneum and that they are connected to dynamics.
It's all the same thing. That's where it's interesting.
mid-brain
mesencephalon
hindbrain
rhombencephalon
and the spinal cord
not to be confused with the notochord
There, we can clearly see at a given moment this ascensus process here, with
all
this
hemispherization phase.
Growth, don't forget, because we don't see enough growth here, the global repositioning
of the CNS.
Subtitles ST' 501
That's where the whole process will take place.
Thank you.
These anterior neuropores, these posterior neuropores will be
a dynamization plan.
It's from the moment I have the closure...
complete closure of my neuropores, anterior and posterior, automatically, the
brain, restarted
by this dynamic in its development, has changed. Initially, I essentially
essentially
have the prosencephalon, which is in there, with my anterior neuropore,
then I have the mesencephalon
and the rhombencephalon. So initially, it's simply behaviorally, like this, with, inside
inside
of this tube.
and even in its vesicles, already some fluid.
Then, we see that the process of telencephalization will
cause this process of lateral ventricles.
This is what will make it so that at that moment, we have the third ventricle, the
fourth ventricle and the lateral ventricles.
We'll understand it in the dynamics of development, the telencephalon appearing.
And then we see the lateral ventricles developing.
We had the three small vesicles here at the beginning,
with, inside these vesicles,
inside these vesicles,
we had fluid.
Okay?
At the time they weren't really organized.
Now, the brain starts to grow,
so we're going to go inside the ventricles.
You imagine, I'm at the level of the prosencephalon, and I enter the prosencephalon.
The prosencephalon flexes, so the whole system leans forward.
Closure of an anterior neuropore and a posterior neuropore
between the 26th and 28th day.
A lunar cycle.
I close.
Here, growth happens.
I have an expansion.
lateral opening
of what?
of my prosencephalon, which does this
okay? it pushes like this
and laterally, we see that
from one ball, it becomes two balls
okay?
and inside, what does the fluid do?
it follows this movement
it goes like this
and then the system, it goes backwards
and that will form
my horns
my lateral ventricles
You see, they make this movement, inside, it only follows the developmental movement
of the prosencephalon, you see, like this.
Initially, they are there, and this process that we call the interventricular foramen,
which is here, you see, a small interventricular foramen,
it's just an expansion that happens at the same time as I have my process
of telencephalization, it does.
the side on both sides it goes on both sides and then it follows the movement
and we see
in fact that it just makes the complete movement a point of
support then it comes back
it's only the developmental movement of the telencephalon which even has a hemisphere
that goes
a little faster than the other that does this and then
joins
that goes, that makes a bit of a movement like that, since I'm exaggerating
a bit.
Later, we'll do a practice, we'll redo the dynamic,
we'll see a bit how we can go into the depth of the brain,
that there's a way to get there.
It's like we're invited to swim with whales, we shouldn't touch them.
We're going to swim with them, but we're not going to put microbes on them.
Initially, we could say that the prosencephalon is the third ventricle.
The eye is an expansion from the third ventricle, but
we'll talk about that later.
That's nervous tissue, it's not fluid.
Initially, the eye is an expansion of the third ventricle.
The disorder of interthalamic adhesion.
The level of the eye is the nervous tissue.
I was talking about interthalamic adhesion.
I thought that was what was happening.
It's a substance that connects the two thalami.
But then, it makes a buoy around it.
And around it, there's water.
Here, especially, we're going to start from there now.
Afterwards, we'll come back.
It's not just at the level of cerebrospinal fluid,
there's the intra-encephalic compartment
and the extra-encephalic compartment.
I can clearly see the extra-encephalic compartment.
When we look at the metabolic, we still discover a lot.
Afterwards, I'm going to show you a short film about the glial cells.
glial cells.
I think the Star Wars people were inspired.
This is also important, these manufacturing zones, you see, which we call the choroid plexus,
which are found in each ventricle.
The lateral ventricles, the third ventricle and the fourth ventricle.
There, I'm not telling you, there's the expansion.
The third ventricle is the first.
It's not called the third ventricle.
We can clearly see the dolphins.
This is in your brain now.
The lateral ventricles which are an expansion of the third ventricle and which follow
the process.
The development of the telencephalon, the
foramen of Monro, that's the foramen of Monro, it's
between the third ventricle and the lateral ventricles.
The third ventricle, the fourth ventricle, the aqueduct of Sylvius and the aqueduct of Sylvius.
And then there, we're going to see, at the level of the fourth ventricle, the great traveler, the
foramen of Magendie,
no, Magendie, sorry, Magendie, where there, hop, we have this important expansion
towards all
my brain, towards the main opening, we could say, it's really the main opening
towards what we call.
with an important area
there, what we call
the
Pacchionian granulations
which are the sites of resorption
which occur along the sinus
longitudinal
sagittal
so you don't have
flexion movement
cephalic, cervical curvature
pontine curvature
and especially
this great movement of hemispherization,
of telencephalization that redraws
the embryo.
It's like we saw here.
Prosencephalon,
mesencephalon, rhombencephalon.
And it's especially this part
in green that interests us to
understand this dynamic, look at the importance
of this development.
Reviewing the days will be interesting later
when we do things
synchronous in development, that we will go
look for what's happening.
In Carnegie stages or in specific months, in development, we will find
digestive or other phenomena that will occur.
This is also a reminder of the different points of support.
General flexion, this is to be reviewed here again with this great
cephalization that will occur.
And one thing that will also be interesting is to remember the connections with
the tip of the notochord.
the supra-occiput, the basi-occiput and the pre-sphenoid.
The ascensus, this is really the work of this cerebralization,
it's the ascensus process, it's the whole process of facial development.
So if I look at a face initially, I have a small embryo here,
and I see that I have the nasal placode developing, the mouth
forming, the heart,
and there it's true.
the very important growth of the telencephalon that will occur
with a very important point of support
at the level of the future crista galli or nasion, with all the return towards the
median axis of the embryo
during growth. You will understand, and this is linked to the process of telencephalization
which has an action on the process of the establishment
of my anterior median line.
Look at the growth.
enormous here, and hop, all the attraction
that happens. And look at that point, it
doesn't move.
The cerebral ascensus, the process of cerebralization, and we will see
that it will act on all
the areas of the palate, which we will explain next time, with a very important point of support.
here, and the development
of telencephalic and the approximation
of the palatine, the flexion
of the choanae and the resulting
posterior clinical, as we saw
earlier, a change
between the development of the brain
backwards, at the same time
this corticalization, at the same time
this ventricularization.
Okay?